Dawn Abriel: That sound right.
Yes.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So I'm I take it you haven't done with life link very long.
Elias Gallegos: No.
Dawn Abriel: All right.
Dawn Abriel: Then
Dawn Abriel: Will you be able to. I've been trying to keep all of the life link people in one group. So you guys know each other and are supportive of each other on that other level. Will you be able to come to the Tuesday at noon group.
Just
Elias Gallegos: Super
Dawn Abriel: Well, this is just working out really well.
Dawn Abriel: So let me start, I just read your evaluations, the assessments that you did with the care coordinators, so that makes this go a little faster.
Dawn Abriel: Have you been on Suboxone
Elias Gallegos: Recently, no.
Elias Gallegos: I haven't
Dawn Abriel: No. Okay. So, when was the last opioid you did of any kind.
Short or long acting
Elias Gallegos: Heroin last time I did heroin was probably like
Elias Gallegos: Within a week or a week ago.
Dawn Abriel: Alright. And so, what have you. What have you been doing to not go into withdrawal.
Elias Gallegos: Well, what I've been doing is I've just been resting have been trying to, uh, I've been taking my other medication, I take a
Elias Gallegos: Wellbutrin. And then I've just been like, I'm still going through a draw. I think I'm serving heavy cravings.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So,
Dawn Abriel: And do you do the heroin through a vein. It's IV drug use.
Elias Gallegos: No I smoke it and snort it
Elias Gallegos: I've never, I've never showed up.
Elias Gallegos: I've been using for like 10 years though I've been using for a very long time. I've just never, I always had like a needle phobia have always been afraid of needles.
Dawn Abriel: Well, you saved yourself a lot of misery.
Dawn Abriel: Because that's what
Dawn Abriel: I see is
Dawn Abriel: Not a lot of fun.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah.
Elias Gallegos: That's like what I think we're just not having like blood borne illnesses.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So any history of overdoses.
Elias Gallegos: Um, yes, I've overdose twice.
Dawn Abriel: And any medical complications. You've never had heart disease, heart infection from your heroin use and but you do have a legal issue from your drug use.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. Yes. And you're on parole right now.
Elias Gallegos: Drug Court
Dawn Abriel: That's a kind of parole.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: That's a drug drug court through in Albuquerque.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, Garrick.
Dawn Abriel: Hold on a second. We've got an important phone call coming in.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Hi.
Dawn Abriel: Christopher I just started with a new patient. Can I call you back when I'm done.
Dawn Abriel: Let him call you back.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Bye bye.
Dawn Abriel: He said the call you back.
Dawn Abriel: Call him back when you're done. Okay. Sorry about that. Elias, I rarely interrupt the sessions, but we've got some construction going on. And we've got to get something done by noon today and it means a lot of pieces have to come into place. So I apologize.
Elias Gallegos: All right.
Dawn Abriel: Let's see.
Dawn Abriel: I was asking you. Oh yeah, but the drug work. And so most people say that doing their drugs and it takes a lot of time, they think about it using it then finding it then, where am I going to get the next one. So that was your life.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, that was like my whole life. For almost 10 years
Elias Gallegos: Actually over 10 years for was like
Elias Gallegos: 12 years has been my life.
Elias Gallegos: I've been like an attic for very long time.
Dawn Abriel: And how old were you when you started with any illicit drug even marijuana
Elias Gallegos: And that was marijuana. Yeah, it always No, actually I started drinking before anything else. The first time I drink was like I drink like half of a half a gallon of the Crown Royal. When I was a kid.
Elias Gallegos: Guide. Yeah, I was like, I got I got so drunk. I was like, so blackout drunk that I woke up at the mall. I was at cordon auto mall here in Albuquerque.
Elias Gallegos: And I was just walking through the mall just drunk just it was like nine o'clock in the morning on a school day.
Elias Gallegos: And I was just walking through the mall and in some like old person walked up to me and he was just like you need Jesus. Some and then like I remember just going home after that I was just like I stumbled. Whoa. All the way home after that.
Dawn Abriel: Find Jesus on the way home.
No.
Elias Gallegos: Just, just remember that vividly is this crazy
Dawn Abriel: I bet that yeah i mean i'm i'm i'm surprised. I mean, this is the beauty of being young, there's so much resilience. There's so much that we get, we can
Dawn Abriel: Compensate for
Dawn Abriel: I'm just glad you're doing this now. Well, well, your body can recover at some really smart of you and I saw that you've been in multiple other treatment programs, was there anything about any of the treatment programs that really worked for you any of them were pieces of it stuck.
Elias Gallegos: Oh yeah, there was a there was one rehab that I went to, is like called men's recovery in Los Lunas and now and kind of stuck with me because they
Dawn Abriel: Yes, I've heard did that.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, I mean, it wasn't really like a good program because it was just like a lot of like people that didn't want to be there all stuck together.
Elias Gallegos: But like one good part about the program was said there was a gym, there, and there was like a workout gym and we had like weights, I guess they closed down.
Elias Gallegos: One of the facilities in New Mexico, and he just moved all the way to be there and it was cool, because like we had like
Elias Gallegos: I mean, there was no guidance those new direction, but I had a couple good friends there that actually like taught me how to work out and stuff. And that really stuck with me.
Elias Gallegos: It was kind of just like peers, like my peers kind of helps me realize that drugs weren't really like all that life is about, you know,
Elias Gallegos: But still, like, I've still been adding
Dawn Abriel: Like, I really do.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, and
Dawn Abriel: I have noticed in my work that I have done a lot of reading been to a lot of conferences and really schooled myself on addiction, so I can offer
Dawn Abriel: Intellectual information. But when people get together in groups. It's the members talking to each other that makes the most difference mean you can hang your hat on some of the intellectual facts that I can offer, but what really changes lives is you guys talking to each other.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And. And you also mentioned in your survey that both sleep and anxiety are issues for you.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, I am taking will be training for my anxiety and it's kind of helping like some mornings I forget to take it like this morning, I kind of forgot to take it, but I took it as soon as I remembered and it's like
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Elias Gallegos: If I don't take it. I just stay in bed. But as soon as I take it. I like wake up and then I start moving around and it helps me move like a start getting focused, but it's just like if I don't take it. I just, I could sleep all day, pretty much.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. Um, so what would you say your self esteem is like good
Yeah, it's pretty good. Add
Elias Gallegos: My self esteem is pretty good.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Elias Gallegos: And how about your stress level.
Elias Gallegos: Oh, the stress is kind of like my issue. I have a lot of issues with stress. Like, like when I started getting really stressed out is when like I start like I'm
Elias Gallegos: Not really shutting down, but it's just like I kind of have to like break away from everything and everybody but besides that, like, I'm pretty good. I mean, well, I have a lot of issues of stress. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: OK, so the kind of stress that is financial support educational work we're kind of stress.
Elias Gallegos: This coronavirus is mainly because there's like, it's hard for me to find a work right now. I mean, I could work. I could do daily labor, but it's like it's hard for me to find a steady job and then
Elias Gallegos: Being on woman. The coronavirus is helping with my drug court because I'm not out and about and there's less risk of me getting trouble and I can do all my groups on my phone, but
Elias Gallegos: The bad part about it is, is just like it's hard for me to find work. And that's just like staying at home all day for like these are time
Dawn Abriel: Okay, I'm going to ask about your past medical history. Do you know what your blood type is
No.
Elias Gallegos: I think having
Dawn Abriel: A head injury I ear, nose or throat diseases, any
Dawn Abriel: lung problems.
Dawn Abriel: Any muscle joint or bone problems thyroid diabetes, anemia, cancer, HIV sexually transmitted diseases. Every tested positive for tuberculosis.
Dawn Abriel: He sees your headache stroke liver
Dawn Abriel: Good.
Elias Gallegos: I just got my blood tested recently and like, I'm good. I know that.
Elias Gallegos: I think
Dawn Abriel: How recently.
Elias Gallegos: About like a month ago.
Elias Gallegos: A month ago.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And when you when you told the care coordinators that did they tell you to call the lab and have the lab send over results to bright heart health.
Elias Gallegos: I know they told me to take another blood test, which I'll do that too.
Elias Gallegos: I'll just say, I'm just gonna stirred. Yeah, yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And if you've got liver function and the usual testing done just all we need is for that lab to send bright heart health to fax bright heart health through results.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Elias Gallegos: Uh, was in it was in MDC so
Elias Gallegos: There's in the jail.
Dawn Abriel: Wow. Well, still, there's a lab that
Dawn Abriel: Did it
Dawn Abriel: That has the result. It's up to you. I do need some set of labs.
Dawn Abriel: To treat you, but
Dawn Abriel: You want to just call a quest lab you just go there and say, I'm on the list of patients with bright heart health, and they will have the facts, they can print out and just do it.
Elias Gallegos: So quest labs com or is it like New Mexico.
Dawn Abriel: Any, any quest lab.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Elias Gallegos: I'm looking it up online right now.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, well, I still have a whole bunch of questions to ask you. So
Dawn Abriel: Hang in there.
Dawn Abriel: You don't have cirrhosis or heartburn or hemorrhoids or hepatitis or liver any other liver problems or officers, you don't have allergic problems.
Dawn Abriel: Hearing aids or dentures. You weren't born with a heart murmur, you don't have an irregular heartbeat high blood pressure or blood clots.
Dawn Abriel: And your bladder and your kidneys and your penis work like they're supposed to. Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any other medical problem that I haven't asked you about
No.
Dawn Abriel: Well then let's move it along.
Dawn Abriel: Any surgeries know
Dawn Abriel: You have your tonsils your gallbladder in your appendix.
Elias Gallegos: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Is your mother alive and in good health.
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: And yellow addiction problems with her.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, she she's on I think she's on the Suboxone program to
Elias Gallegos: That she's on Suboxone programs you
Dawn Abriel: And is she in our
Dawn Abriel: Breakout health
Elias Gallegos: She's in like life link.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: But, but she's not with bright heart health.
Elias Gallegos: Know what's your name.
Elias Gallegos: ernestina
Dawn Abriel: Okay, now she's not with us.
Dawn Abriel: And she's addicted to prescription opioids.
Elias Gallegos: Oh no, she's on Suboxone
Dawn Abriel: But, but was her addiction originally prescription opioids.
Elias Gallegos: I don't know.
Dawn Abriel: Oh, okay.
Dawn Abriel: And you know what she has no other medical problems.
Dawn Abriel: No. Okay. And your father. Is he alive.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And to see in good health.
Dawn Abriel: No addiction problems.
Nope.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have brothers and sisters
No.
Dawn Abriel: Then tell me about tobacco.
Elias Gallegos: Yes, smoke.
Dawn Abriel: And how old were you when you started
Elias Gallegos: A 13
Dawn Abriel: And what do you smoke now.
Elias Gallegos: Cigarettes.
Dawn Abriel: How many a day.
Elias Gallegos: Well now that this coronavirus and I don't have any money, kind of like one. If I can get a cigarette. Most, most days ago, without a cigarette.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. Boy, this would be such a great opportunity to quit.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah. So I'm saying like honestly like this coronavirus is good and bad at the same time, I think.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, yeah, that's for sure. I'll tell you once you get on the Suboxone it's easier to let go of the cigarettes. This would be the time to do it.
Dawn Abriel: Yeah, use that as an excuse and and taking the Gabba Penton helps also and the Wellbutrin
Elias Gallegos: All right.
Dawn Abriel: How about alcohol.
Elias Gallegos: No I don't drink anymore.
Dawn Abriel: When did you quit.
Elias Gallegos: I quit drinking like Pilate, three years ago.
Dawn Abriel: And what
Dawn Abriel: What kind of a diet. Do you have
Elias Gallegos: A pretty good day. I mean, I eat a lot but like I don't know. I've also have really any tablet ism.
Dawn Abriel: Do you eat more than a couple of fast foods, a week.
Elias Gallegos: I don't really have any fast food. A week I don't eat fast food at all.
Dawn Abriel: And do you get regular exercise.
Elias Gallegos: Sometimes, sometimes like my. Am I kind of like exercises like if I leave if I leave my apartment. I'm going to be out like all day walking or riding my bike or like traveling across town and all the way back, like on foot like I really like take that religiously. But besides that.
Elias Gallegos: Know the past two days, I've just been at home, resting
Dawn Abriel: Okay, do you take an aspirin every day.
Elias Gallegos: No.
Dawn Abriel: You have a household smoke detector.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And do you wear your seat belts.
Elias Gallegos: Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any guns in your home.
Elias Gallegos: No. Oh, no.
Dawn Abriel: Oh no, he says.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Are you sexually active right now.
Elias Gallegos: I think so. I mean, like,
Dawn Abriel: Usually people know this this
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, yeah. I say that I am
Dawn Abriel: Okay, and you were born male and you identify as male
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, just
Dawn Abriel: Well, I'm glad I'm glad you knew that one right away.
Dawn Abriel: Did you ever use benzodiazepines for funds Danny bars annex Valium.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, Linda. Well, it's been a long time, though, but yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Okay. How old were you when you started. And when was the last use
Elias Gallegos: I think I was like 13 or 14 like I started really young, with like a lot of hard drugs. I started doing started opiates. When I was like really young and I was mixing opiates and Benz's theater at a really young age.
Dawn Abriel: Wow.
Dawn Abriel: It is so amazing that you're alive.
Elias Gallegos: I know, and I like I have all my teeth and everything. It's crazy, like people tell me that it's like guild like how you have all your teeth and how you not all like messed up.
Elias Gallegos: And it's just like, I don't know, I've been an attic for, like, literally, very long time. Like, almost a decade and a half. And I mean,
Elias Gallegos: I've been struggling. Now, I've been home. I've been homeless strung out and I've never showed up or done any of that.
Dawn Abriel: And you were born and raised in Albuquerque.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And how old were you when you started using marijuana
Elias Gallegos: 13
Dawn Abriel: And your last year's
Elias Gallegos: My last use was probably like
Elias Gallegos: A month ago.
Dawn Abriel: Okay and cocaine.
Elias Gallegos: Cocaine and so easy cooking shows like 14
Dawn Abriel: Oh you waited. Okay.
Elias Gallegos: Well, you
Dawn Abriel: held off on that one.
Elias Gallegos: Cookies to or quarter.
Dawn Abriel: Last us
Elias Gallegos: I haven't used cocaine like almost two years.
Dawn Abriel: Okay and methamphetamine.
Elias Gallegos: That I started using
Dawn Abriel: And last year's
Elias Gallegos: Last you use was probably like about a month ago.
Dawn Abriel: And do you have any children.
Know,
Dawn Abriel: How far did you go in school.
Elias Gallegos: And made it to my God I made it to the 11th grade. Then I got my GED.
Dawn Abriel: For you.
Dawn Abriel: And what kind of work do you do
Elias Gallegos: I do I want to be working in a kitchen. I wanted to be a bartender, but I can't because of my probation, but I kind of like the
Elias Gallegos: I don't know, just interacting with customers. And just like I'm that kind of environment like a restaurant type environment.
Elias Gallegos: Like, like, even as like a waiter. That'd be pretty cool because like I think I can make a lot of money with doing tips and stuff. And like people skills, you know, anything that's like kind of what I wanted. That's what I wanted to pursue doing
Dawn Abriel: Gotcha. And what do you like to do for fun.
Elias Gallegos: I like to ride my bike.
Elias Gallegos: I'm working on my bike credo
Dawn Abriel: And the last
Dawn Abriel: Arrest that you have was that for possession
Elias Gallegos: It was. Yeah, it was a possession
Dawn Abriel: And with whom do you live right now.
Elias Gallegos: I live in a duplex is my dad. My dad owns a duplex and I live in the front apartment.
Dawn Abriel: That's great.
Dawn Abriel: Do you want me to put down a religion.
No.
Dawn Abriel: And you are single, since you don't know if you have sex or not. Let's see.
Dawn Abriel: And right now, you're unemployed. All right. I think that's enough on that.
Dawn Abriel: So now I'm going to, let's start with the kind of withdrawal.
Dawn Abriel: Symptoms you're having right now patient is in
Dawn Abriel: Draw
Dawn Abriel: So,
Dawn Abriel: Tell me what kind of withdrawal symptoms, you're experiencing.
Elias Gallegos: I have, like, I don't know, like my legs. Keep just like it's hard for me to sleep at night and then just like my legs start shaking. And then, um,
Elias Gallegos: It's hard for me to sleep and I started having like some pains in my stomach like cramps and it kind of feels like
Elias Gallegos: It feels like sounds like putting like a grand old for the first two or three days. It felt like songs like putting like a grinder in my stomach.
Elias Gallegos: And just turning it and it's just filling my guts were just like, hurting, and it was hard for me to sleep in as like times going on it though that pains going away, but I just have like these migraines and just like these cravings.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so now I'm going to read a long list, don't answer yes to any of them that are withdraw. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: Fever, night sweats chills cold intolerance, fatigue, weight gain drinking alive. Eating a lot red eyes.
Dawn Abriel: Double vision, blurred vision loss of vision change division changing hearing, hearing loss. Your drainage ringing in your ears bloody nose chronic nasal congestion. So lips or mouth sore tongue.
Dawn Abriel: lumps in your neck stiffness or neck pain, difficulty breathing shortness of breath or a new cough chest pain, irregular heartbeat. Can't breathe lying down edema swelling in your ankles varicose veins. Do you have diarrhea right now from the
Dawn Abriel: Drug use it all.
Elias Gallegos: I had diarrhea. The other day yeah pretty bad. I think it was like two days ago yeah diary every that
Dawn Abriel: And no vomiting a reptile pain or abdominal pain that's not from
Dawn Abriel: Withdrawal
Dawn Abriel: No blood in your urine painful urination pain a lot peeing to little change in here now or skin texture new moles are itching, a rash.
Dawn Abriel: Muscle pain back pain tender points muscle cramps limp headache vertigo lightheadedness fainting numbness, tingling weakness tremor lack of coordination difficulty speaking changing mood depression sadness interfering with function.
Dawn Abriel: Put positive for anxiety and positive for sleep disturbance
Dawn Abriel: thoughts of suicide hopelessness seeing or hearing things that other people don't are easy bruising.
Elias Gallegos: Oh, no.
Dawn Abriel: No. All right, and you're not taking any prescription medicines right now. Oh, you are you're taking the Wellbutrin
Dawn Abriel: Yes. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And you're taking the s are or the X el do you take it one day or twice a day.
Elias Gallegos: I take two two pills once a day.
Dawn Abriel: So that's the XL.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: You take two of the 300 or two of the 150
Elias Gallegos: To 75 actually
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so then you must be on the s are
Dawn Abriel: Yeah. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. There's no 75
Elias Gallegos: Yeah. Oh.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, so this is just Wellbutrin all by itself to a day.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, I get it.
Elias Gallegos: My bed.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any allergies to medicines.
No.
Dawn Abriel: So these are questions meant for people that might have dementia, but I have to ask you you bathe yourself and dress yourself and feed yourself and go to the bathroom all by yourself.
Dawn Abriel: You know how where you are, what day of the week and month and year it is make your own decisions. You can direct your attention and focus and you can read
Yes.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I want you to get your pulse and you do that by
Dawn Abriel: You have a muscle on the side of your neck that goes from your job down to your neck right in front of it. If you take your right hand and feel your left side. Yeah, you're a little too high. Yeah right in there. If you gently press like
Dawn Abriel: Into the muscle, you'll get your carotid artery. Do you have the
Elias Gallegos: Ability.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, I'll tell you when to start counting now.
12345678
Elias Gallegos: buzzy
Dawn Abriel: All right. Thank you.
Dawn Abriel: How tall are you,
Elias Gallegos: I am five, the living.
Dawn Abriel: And the current weight.
Elias Gallegos: 195 pounds.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, when she to get really close to the camera and pull your eyelid down so I can see
Dawn Abriel: Great. Okay. Relax, let go.
Dawn Abriel: Look, all the way to the right with your eyes only
Dawn Abriel: In the left
Dawn Abriel: Up and down.
Dawn Abriel: Read that either side of your nose.
Dawn Abriel: Stick your tongue out at me and move it side to side.
Dawn Abriel: Great. Okay. Close your mouth by down you to have no job pain.
Dawn Abriel: All right.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: Pull the cap or go back just a little bit and let me see you swallow.
Dawn Abriel: Great. Put your ear to your shoulder both sides.
Dawn Abriel: Okay and chin. The shoulder both sides.
Dawn Abriel: And your head back and head forward.
Dawn Abriel: Take a big deep breath.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And push on your belly with the other hand. Upper right upper left lower right lower left no pain or bumps or lumps or anything abnormal in there.
No.
Dawn Abriel: And bring the camera down. Let me see your ankles.
Dawn Abriel: Great. Okay. Then prop the camera up somewhere.
Dawn Abriel: And let me see you pull pull against your fingers.
Dawn Abriel: Great no pain or discomfort when you do that.
Dawn Abriel: Well, and then lastly, let me see you tap your fingers to your thumb.
Dawn Abriel: Perfect. Okay, now let's talk about the program.
Will go
Dawn Abriel: In group, it has to be very much like this with good lighting. You have to be seated. You have to be stable in somewhere where you you're not wandering around and
Dawn Abriel: With the good lighting and the most important thing is that under no conditions can there be anyone walking behind you.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, because if someone accidentally saw someone may new on your screen, it would be a big violation of privacy. Right.
Dawn Abriel: So if we ever see someone behind you. We will kick you out of the group will kick you out of zoom
Dawn Abriel: Okay. And when you come to zoom the group and you've been there for an hour, then the doctor will write your medicine for that week.
Dawn Abriel: So if you have to miss group.
Dawn Abriel: And you know, we know that life happens but
Dawn Abriel: You have to go to the virtual clinic and say, you know, my mother's sick, I'm in the hospital or whatever it is, but
Dawn Abriel: You know if that goes on for more than two or three times in a row, then we have to discharge you and you have to start all over. Coming back in
Dawn Abriel: But for the most part, I can write for your scripts, if, if you have to miss an appointment we ask that you don't, because this is the therapy. The group work is the medicine. The buprenorphine is what allows you to be confident and calm enough to be in group to get the real treatment right
Right.
Dawn Abriel: Because you're not having to be out on the street hustling and whatever. So in all of the programs you've been in. Have you ever been on buprenorphine.
Dawn Abriel: No. Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So we don't really know.
Dawn Abriel: How much to give you about how much heroin. Were you doing per day.
Elias Gallegos: I was doing about like a half guy like a half gram habit half gram to, like, yeah, I have ground we get me through the day. And if I got less than that, then I would just keep
Elias Gallegos: Keep keep hustling till I made enough to until I did enough, pretty much. It wasn't really like it was pretty much me just smoking into like I got enough
Elias Gallegos: To the point where I would stop my anxiety would go away the pain go away and I would be able to just be content and then some days I would push it beyond the but most of the time is around half graph.
Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So because we don't know how much buprenorphine. You're going to need
Dawn Abriel: You and I are going to have to check in.
Dawn Abriel: Like this weekend so
Dawn Abriel: It takes about two to three days for the for you to get enough buprenorphine in your system for us to know how
Dawn Abriel: So here's the thing.
Dawn Abriel: You have made receptors, right, the opioid has to get into the cells and it does it by matching the receptor, but when you take heroin, your body creates many more receptors, and that's what tolerance. That's why you need more and more to get the same effect.
Dawn Abriel: So we don't know how many receptors, you have
Dawn Abriel: So with the buprenorphine.
Dawn Abriel: What we're trying to do is cover you know block it in, get those receptors with buprenorphine on them instead of the heroin. See, because it's empty receptors that trigger withdrawal symptoms and the cravings.
Dawn Abriel: Yes. So if we get enough buprenorphine on board you the cravings decrease and the withdrawal symptoms decrease. So let's start with eight milligrams it but the way I want you to do it. Just that one time just today want you to go and cut it in half the little strip
Dawn Abriel: And take four milligrams
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And wait an hour and see how you do. If you have no withdrawal symptoms didn't just wait if by eight o'clock tonight you start having some withdrawal, take the other four milligrams
Dawn Abriel: And then tomorrow, take the full eight because the idea is this medicine is really, really long acting, it stays in your system between 48 and 72 hours. There are some countries that dose this. Every third day some. Yeah, it really stays in your system, a long time so
Dawn Abriel: So you want. You really want to take it only once a day.
Dawn Abriel: And you do that by putting it under your tongue, you can take a sip of water.
Dawn Abriel: And then put it under your tongue. It has to sit there for at least two minutes because it's the blood vessels underneath your tongue that absorb the medicine.
Dawn Abriel: And you cannot smoke before taking your sub your buprenorphine. If you do, because you know the tobacco. One of the ways it does damage all over your body is to cramp down your blood vessels, that's what causes the stroke and the heart attack and the kidney disease is the cramping down
Dawn Abriel: But you're trying to make those blood vessels under your tongue, taking the medicine, but if they're all cramped down from the smoking, you don't get all the medicine.
Dawn Abriel: So don't smoke before taking your film.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: I give
Dawn Abriel: E prescriptions electronic you'll never get a piece of paper with the prescription on it. So you gave the care coordinators, the name and address of the pharmacy and I will submit that in just a couple of minutes.
Elias Gallegos: Okay. The Walgreens on cemetery.
Dawn Abriel: If that's what you told them. That's where it'll go if you ever need to change pharmacies. You go to the virtual clinic and you tell them to change.
Dawn Abriel: The pharmacy, you want to use and do that before group. If you don't do it before group. I don't know that you want a different pharmacy and it's
Dawn Abriel: It's a lot harder to change it that way by telling me.
Dawn Abriel: Once a month you'll get one of these in the mail.
A
Dawn Abriel: manila envelope. When you get it in the mail. Do not open it.
Dawn Abriel: If you open it, they won't use it.
Dawn Abriel: If you get it get it in the mail, you go to the virtual clinic and you say to the care coordinators, I have one of these. What do I do
Dawn Abriel: You'll open it in front of them, you'll take this out, you'll open this in front of them.
Dawn Abriel: And you'll go to the bathroom that you will not take your phone with you because we do not need to see you pee into the cup.
Dawn Abriel: You bring the cup back and you'll hold the cup up to the camera and you'll turn it very slowly. They'll read the results.
Dawn Abriel: The important thing here is if you change your address. You have to make sure bright heart health gets your address, because if you if you don't get this in the mail once a month, you have to go to a lab and get the get your
Dawn Abriel: urine drug screen.
Dawn Abriel: So make sure they've got the correct address if you ever don't. So you're going to go to the lab in the next couple of days to get urine and blood
Dawn Abriel: For baseline labs.
Dawn Abriel: So this month is covered, you won't get one of those in the mail until in June.
Dawn Abriel: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: After weird. I'm also sending you some Narcan by law. If I order a narcotic and buprenorphine is a long acting opioids. It's a narcotic.
Dawn Abriel: And I have to order Narcan so you can pick it up have there's 11 refills use them you know it's it's people in your situation, who really save the most number of lives by having Narcan around
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, I've actually I've actually given. So I went to an MDC I went to an art class because they had this program where like
Elias Gallegos: A these doctors came in and they said that, like if someone's overdosing and you feel like you could help them. You should know how to give people Narcan so like when I got when I got released from there.
Elias Gallegos: They gave me some Narcan and I actually ended up saving somebody on the street with the Narcan like a couple times.
Elias Gallegos: And it was actually it was it was a good feeling. And it was kind of cool that like inside the jail that they like the doctors came in and let us
Elias Gallegos: Are basically gave us Narcan to save someone's life and then like with all those people falling out on heroin is kind of is actually really good feeling.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, because
Elias Gallegos: Because if an ambulance will come. By the time the endless was the comb, they would have already been like, you know,
Dawn Abriel: They would have stopped breathing and and wouldn't have been able to get him back.
Elias Gallegos: Yeah, and it was just a good feeling to know that, like, I have no can in my backpack and I you know someone's overdosing, you know, be like, I could save him right now. You know, it was reasonable.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: So, you know, Elias with with your life experience.
Dawn Abriel: You, you just would be such the perfect person to be a pure drug counselor.
Elias Gallegos: That's what I've been wanting to do, actually, especially since like I've been an addict for so long. Like, I understand.
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: You do you understand it much better than I ever will.
Dawn Abriel: So I'm glad you're here. I think you'll do really well in this program. If you had any problems or any questions.
Dawn Abriel: You go to the virtual clinic and you talk to the care coordinators. That's their job they're hired to solve your problems and
Dawn Abriel: We have had a huge increase in the number of people asking for our services because of the pandemic. So we've had to train a bunch of new care coordinators and they are not all up to speed. But if you're patient and you're you're stubborn, you'll get the care you need
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: So your group is going to be Tuesdays at noon, you have to go to the virtual clinic at least a half an hour beforehand to do
Dawn Abriel: A couple of things.
Elias Gallegos: You have to fill out.
Dawn Abriel: One of the surveys every week.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: That's survey is called the bam ba.
Dawn Abriel: Brief addiction monitor
Dawn Abriel: So when we're done here with when you're done with me here. You're going to go back to the virtual clinic and you're going to ask the coordinator for three things.
Dawn Abriel: Oh no, you're going to already go to the lab for two things, ask them, How do I do a Bam.
Dawn Abriel: Get. Get familiar and easy with that and how do I do the ACE AC e adverse childhood experiences. I want to see what your early childhood traumas were be
Dawn Abriel: And that's just one time 10 questions one time and you're done.
Dawn Abriel: Let's see if I told you everything. So when is your group.
Elias Gallegos: My group is at 12 o'clock noon every Tuesday and I have to show up 30 minutes early to
Elias Gallegos: Do my bam, and you have to enter the virtual clinic 30 minutes or
Dawn Abriel: Right, because sometimes you'll get processed really fast and they'll give you, because the zoom room number changes every week. It's a different number every week to get into group. That way we can make sure people do their surveys and have their urine drug screens and all of that done.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: After you're done with me. You're going to go do the BAM and the ACE
Elias Gallegos: Right after this band an ace or
Yeah.
Dawn Abriel: And then you're going to get your blood work done as soon as possible.
Right.
Dawn Abriel: So we need to meet. Let's meet Saturday.
Saturday.
If we meet
Dawn Abriel: Let's see.
Dawn Abriel: We could meet briefly like it.
Elias Gallegos: 845 45
Dawn Abriel: That works for you.
Yeah yeah
Dawn Abriel: Saturday 845
Dawn Abriel: So you'll go to the virtual clinic and you say, I'm just, I've got a brief medical check in with the doc and
Dawn Abriel: And I'll just ask you how long the medicines lasting you
Dawn Abriel: If you're having any problems, you know, you're taking too much buprenorphine. If you get sleepy drowsiness means you've got too much of the medicine on board.
Dawn Abriel: I doubt that's going to happen given your long history of how many receptors, you've created on yourself so far, but just just see, you know,
Dawn Abriel: So you're going to take for wait an hour. So if you're feeling fine. Great. If by the evening time you're starting to get some more withdrawal symptoms, take the other four milligrams and the next day you'll take how much
Elias Gallegos: I will take four and then if it's too much still. Then I take two and if it's two lists and I still take them out that started that day with prayer.
Dawn Abriel: Right, so the total you'll. The next morning you'll take the total of eight. If you go four plus four. Then the next morning you'll take eight and then every day in the morning, you will only take eight
Dawn Abriel: OK. OK.
Dawn Abriel: So for now, I'm going to write for I'm going to write for one film every day, till Saturday and
Dawn Abriel: But it's not going to have all that complicated instruction on the bottle right you're going to do the what we've talked about not what it says on the bottle.
Elias Gallegos: Okay, okay.
Dawn Abriel: Do you have any questions.
Elias Gallegos: Um, you are. Yeah.
Elias Gallegos: After this, after I do the check in with the virtual clinic for the for to learn about the band and everything. How, when do I go pick up my prescription
Dawn Abriel: Well, it'll take about 1520 minutes for me to finish your chart here and to order it.
Okay, so
Dawn Abriel: What I recommend is that you call and say, Is my E prescription in
Dawn Abriel: And I, you know, I'm ready to come pick it up.
Dawn Abriel: And I recommend that everyone have the pharmacy tech the person that you know they're just about to hand you the package you need to say to them, please count them in front of me.
Dawn Abriel: So I'm going to send you Civ Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday. I'm going to send you for
Dawn Abriel: Four films, so
Dawn Abriel: If you touch the package, they won't, they won't take it back if they've missed counted. If someone stole it back in the pharmacy, they won't give you
Dawn Abriel: Once you touch the package, they won't change anything about it. If you just hold your hands and you say, please. Count the number in front of me.
Dawn Abriel: And if you want to blame me. If you want to say, I know this is stupid, but my doctor just is going to give me a hard time if I don't do this. This is to protect you. Because if they short you there is nothing I can do. There is nothing I can do. I can't write for more
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: The insurance won't cover it that
Dawn Abriel: The pharmacy won't do anything about it really. There's nothing we can do. And you end up being a short but if you make them count it in front of you, then that is solved.
Dawn Abriel: And then they don't like it. I gotta tell you the pharmacies don't like it.
Dawn Abriel: So that's why I say blame it on me.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Elias Gallegos: All right.
Elias Gallegos: Well, no, I'm not okay with just throwing you under the bus, I'd be like, okay, I understand.
Dawn Abriel: I don't care that that you know it's all about patient safety patient
Dawn Abriel: Protection, I will tell you that it's awfully important to keep them in a safe place if you if you have a locked place that's even better.
Dawn Abriel: You don't have children around but people come in, they know you're on Suboxone they want to steal your medicine and sell it. So, don't tell people you're on Suboxone don't tell them you have it in your home.
Elias Gallegos: Alright.
Dawn Abriel: And
Dawn Abriel: Make sure so once you get stable like probably June, maybe the end of June, you will start tapering tiny little bits, you'll be cutting off of one of your strips.
Dawn Abriel: And so when you go to the pharmacy buy a contact lens container because you're going to put tiny little pieces into those contact lens storage.
Dawn Abriel: Places.
Elias Gallegos: Okay.
Dawn Abriel: All right. Anything else
Elias Gallegos: Oh no, thank you.
Dawn Abriel: You're very welcome. We'll see you Saturday morning.
Elias Gallegos: See you Saturday morning. Have a good day.
Dawn Abriel: Okay, you too. Bye bye.
Dawn Abriel: I think the only thing left is to fill in the bubbles for Elias gay goes birthday April 22 1995. Thank you.